## Present Yourself

### Voice

* Projection
* Diction
* Emotion/color
* "Um…" and related vocal ticks

note:

V

In our conference attendee survey, the second most popular singular answer to that "which one bad speaking practice would you eliminate" question was, "Couldn't hear or understand speaker." This is something which really seems to annoy a lot of audience members.

We don't have time today to go into all of the many strategies for making sure that you can be understood by your audience. But some of the things to which you can pay attention include:

* Projection: Are you quiet? Or are you standing tall and speaking from the diaphragm? Watching your posture helps greatly here.
* Diction: Are you mumbling? This may be a sign that you're not well-practiced with the material and are vocally hiding rather than speaking up with confidence. Try practicing a few more times.
* Emotion/color: So many speakers stand in front of the crowd and have no inflection to the tone of their voice. It's monotonous, quite literally, and it's dull. As well, it sends the signal to the audience that you're not excited by the material. If you don't seem excited, why should they be excited? Add emotion and inflection to your voice when performing. Get excited and show it.
* Vocal ticks are a hard one. Every time I listen to one of my talks I hear, once again, how many of my own fall into every performance, no matter how familiar I am with the material. Part of the reason for me is that I speak so quickly that by the time I get done with a sentence I haven't had the chance to prepare the next one, so I practice slowing down my talks to prevent this. Other strategies are to practice with a friend and offer to pay them a quarter for every vocal tick they call out during the performance.
